Material canvas docs (#2315)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/atom-guide/look-dev/tools/material-canvas.md

At this time, Material Canvas has two output nodes. The Base PBR and Standard PBR nodes contain input slots, options, and templates that can be used to create custom shaders and materials with lighting models and features similar to the core material type counterpart. Not all features have been exposed to the Standard PBR node.

Experiment by dragging one of these nodes onto a material graph. If the automatic graph compilation settings are enabled, which they are by default, several shader files, the material type, and the default material will be generated in the folder containing the material graph file.

#### Constant Nodes
Constant nodes represent constant variables defined in line in shader code. There are several constant nodes corresponding to different data types supported by the AZSL. These nodes should be used to setup any variables that do not need to be exposed to outside of the shader or configurable through materials.

> #### Input Nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Input nodes
```

> Input nodes represent named variables that will be added to the Material SRG structure with properties and connections exposed in the material type. These properties will be displayed and configurable in the material editor and material component. They can also be controlled through script. Input nodes have additional property slots for you to specify their name, description, and other data to make them easily identifiable. As with constant nodes, there are several different nodes corresponding to data types supported by AZSL and the material system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input nodes represent named variables that will be added to the Material SRG structure with properties and connections exposed in the material type. These properties will be displayed and configurable in the Material Editor and material component. You can also control them through script. Input nodes have additional property slots for you to specify their name, description, and other data to make them easily identifiable. As with constant nodes, there are several different nodes corresponding to data types supported by AZSL and the material system.
```

> #### Vertex Nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Vertex nodes
```

The vertex node category contains nodes that correspond to different vertex attributes like positions, normals, texture coordinates, and so on. There are nodes for the same attribute in local and world space.

> #### Function Nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Function nodes
```

The function node category contains several math related and utility function nodes that process property and input values and return a result. Currently, the majority of the function nodes are wrappers for AZSL intrinsic functions.

> #### Texturing Nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Texturing nodes
```

This category contains nodes related to texture sampling. Note that some texture sampling nodes sample from a constant vector by default. You may require input from a UV node or other varying vertex attribute node to sample using texture coordinates covering a surface or model.

> #### Scene Nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Scene nodes
```

This category is intended to contain nodes for elements of the Scene SRG. At this time, the only exposed node is Time.

> #### Utility Nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Utility nodes
```

> The utility node category contains standard comment and group nodes used by all of the O3DE, graph editing tools. Comment nodes can be placed throughout the graph to leave notes and descriptions about a particular part of the graph. Group nodes can be used as a container for other nodes on the graph. Groups containing other nodes can then be expanded, collapsed, and treated as a single node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The utility node category contains standard comment and group nodes used by all of the O3DE, graph editing tools. Comment nodes can be placed throughout the graph to leave notes and descriptions about a particular part of the graph. You can use group nodes as a container for other nodes on the graph. For groups that contain other nodes, you can expand, collapse, and treat them as a single node.
```

> ## Creating New Material Graph Nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating new material graph nodes
```

Material Canvas nodes, with the exception of utility nodes, are completely defined in JSON configuration files. As mentioned earlier, these files describe the nodes UUID, name, description, category, as well as the layout and details for each slot on the node. Node configurations may have additional settings or meta data to drive the code and data generation process.

> The material graph node document inspector supports creating unique node UUIDs, adding and removing slots, selecting data types, configuring default values, and managing custom settings for nodes and slots. The inspector also has custom controls for making selections and editing AZSL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The inspector for material graph node documents allow you to create unique node UUIDs, add and remove slots, select data types, configure default values, and manage custom settings for nodes and slots. The inspector also has custom controls for making selections and editing AZSL.
```

> It is possible to create nodes from scratch using tooling provided by Material Canvas. However, some of the nodes are simple enough that it might be easier and faster to copy an existing material graph node file, update the UUID, and make changes using the tool or directly in JSON. Future revisions to the material graph node inspector could further simplify this process.

Reviewer: Remove sentence about future revisions, as those aren't set in stone.
```suggestion
It is possible to create nodes from scratch using tools provided by Material Canvas. However, some of the nodes are simple enough that it might be more convenient to copy an existing material graph node file, update the UUID, and make changes using the tool or directly in JSON.
```

The node description is an optional field that will be presented as a tool tip when hovering over a node in the palette.

Slot data type groups contains a delimited list of slots names. The Material Canvas graph traversal and code generation process will enforce that all slot names listed in this field are promoted to the same data type, if they are compatible. Currently, if all of the listed slots reference scalar or vector values than all of the slot values will be promoted to the largest data type. For example, if all of the slots on the node are scalar values but an incoming connection is a three-dimensional vector then all of the other slots will be up converted to three dimensional vectors. This is necessary, in addition to other forms of casting, so that variables generated from different incoming types will be compatible with code and function calls defined in the node.

> #### Material Graph Node Slot Configuration Attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Material graph node slot configuration attributes
```

> Every slot configuration must have a unique name with respect to the node. The slot name is used to uniquely identify and address the slot, setup connections between slots, and is used to create a unique variable name in generated shader code and other files. The name will also be used as the display name in the UI if there is no specific display name specified. Changing the name will break connections and lose any data associated with the slot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every slot configuration must have a unique name with respect to the node. The slot name is used to identify and address the slot, set up connections between slots, and create a unique variable name in generated shader code and other files. The name is also used as the display name in the UI, if there is no display name specified. Avoid changing the name because it breaks connections and loses any data associated with the slot.
```

> The display name can be specified as a more user-friendly name to present in the UI. If no note display name is assigned then one will be inferred from the slot name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For display name, specify a more user-friendly name to present in the UI. If no display name is provide, then a name inferred from the slot name.
```

> The description provides more detail about what slots do or represent. These will be presented as tool tips when hovering the mouse cursor over the node and slot in the graph view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The description provides more detail about what slots do or represent. This is presented as tool tips when you hover over the node and slot in the graph view.
```

> The supporting data types regular expression field is used to acquire which data types are compatible with a slot. The regular expression makes it easier to match several data types with a single expression instead of listing them all individually. However, individual data types can be listed using vertical bar separators between them.

Reviewer: Should there be an apostrophe here? 
Reworded some of this and linked to Regex wiki. 
```suggestion
The supporting data types' regular expression field is used to acquire which data types are compatible with a slot. With [regular expressions](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression), you can query multiple data types that match a specific pattern, or list the data types individually. 
```

The default value field is used to set a specific default value for a slot. This is optional because the system specifies a standard default value when registering all the data types. No explicit default value is assigned in the node configuration then the registered default value will be used.

> #### Material Graph Node Settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Material graph node settings
```

> Material Graph Nodes and slots provide a field for arbitrary settings. Material graph nodes use the settings for data like blocks of AZSL instructions, template file lists, include file lists, and other entries used for material inputs and shader options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Material graph nodes and slots provide a field for arbitrary settings. Material graph nodes use the settings for data like blocks of AZSL instructions, template file lists, include file lists, and other entries used for material inputs and shader options.
```

In the previous example, the settings are used to add AZSL instruction blocks and code snippets to create a variable from a property slot and return its value on an output slot.

> #### Material Graph Node Settings for AZSL Instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Material graph node settings for AZSL instructions
```

Material graph node and slot configurations can both contain settings for AZSL instruction blocks. These instructions settings are simply lines of AZSL code that create variables, assign values, call functions, and anything else that can be done in AZSL.

In the above example, unique instruction sets are added to each input and output slot. The input slots have instructions for creating variables with the slot type and value assigned. The output slot instructions create another variable to hold the result of the multiplication.

> During the code generation process, the entire graph will be traversed in depth order, and instructions will be stitched together from each node to fill in the shader program. For each node, instructions will be added in the following order: property slot instructions, input slot instructions, node instructions, output slot instructions. This gives a deterministic flow of data from inputs to outputs. In the final shader code, each variable name is prefixed with a unique identifier for the contributing node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the code generation process, the entire graph is traversed in depth order, and instructions are stitched together from each node to fill in the shader program. For each node, instructions are added in the following order: property slot instructions, input slot instructions, node instructions, output slot instructions. This gives a deterministic flow of data from inputs to outputs. In the final shader code, each variable name is prefixed with a unique identifier for the contributing node.
```

> Various macros are available to insert details about the node or slot in instruction settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following macros to insert details about the node or slot in instruction settings.
```

> -	SLOTTYPE will be substituted with the AZSL data type for the current slot.
> -	SLOTTYPE(name) will be substituted with the AZSL data type for the slot with the specified name.
> -	SLOTNAME will be substituted with the unique, decorated variable name for the current slot.
> -	SLOTNAME(name) will be substituted with the unique, decorated variable name for the slot with the specified name.
> -	SLOTVALUE will be substituted with the value for the current slot unless it has an incoming connection. If there is an incoming connection, it will be replaced with the unique variable name for that connection.
> -	SLOTVALUE(name) will be substituted with the value for the slot with the specified name unless it has an incoming connection. If there is an incoming connection, it will be replaced with the unique variable name for that connection.

Reviewer: Preference for present tense "is/are" over future tense 
```suggestion
-	SLOTTYPE is substituted with the AZSL data type for the current slot.
-	SLOTTYPE(name) is substituted with the AZSL data type for the slot with the specified name.
-	SLOTNAME is substituted with the unique, decorated variable name for the current slot.
-	SLOTNAME(name) is substituted with the unique, decorated variable name for the slot with the specified name.
-	SLOTVALUE is substituted with the value for the current slot unless it has an incoming connection. If there is an incoming connection, it is replaced with the unique variable name for that connection.
-	SLOTVALUE(name) is substituted with the value for the slot with the specified name unless it has an incoming connection. If there is an incoming connection, it is replaced with the unique variable name for that connection.
```

## Troubleshooting

> ### Material Canvas Viewport Does Not Update Immediately After Editing Graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Material Canvas viewport does not update immediately after editing graph
```

> Material Canvas automatically launches the Asset Processor if it is not already running. Some graphics related assets must be processed before the main window opens.

Reviewer: Added an action for the user
```suggestion
Material Canvas automatically launches the Asset Processor if it is not already running. Some graphics related assets must be processed before the main window opens. Wait until Asset Processor is done processing all assets.
```

The shader compilation process is expensive, complex, and currently managed by the Shader Asset Builder. Material Canvas relies on the Asset Processor and Shader Asset Builder to process, validate, and preview content generated by material graphs. The Asset Processor reports status, error messages, and other notifications as shader and material assets are built. The viewport updates with shader and material previews as quickly as those assets can be processed.

Building shader assets takes more time on Windows than Linux, or other platforms. This is partially because Windows builds shaders for the null renderer, DX12, and Vulkan by default. Registry settings can be configured to disable unused targets and vastly improve shader compilation and preview times. Use the Material Canvas settings dialog to override these settings.

> ### Material Canvas Fails To Launch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Material Canvas fails to launch
```

> Material Canvas normally initializes all of the gems enabled by the active project. In order to reduce start times and system resource utilization, Material Canvas, and the other atom tools, includes registry setting files that forcibly disable several standard O3DE gems that are not likely to be needed within the tool.

Reviewer: Bring over suggestions from Material Editor here as well
